CIP for CN token standard (#1)
meiersi-da/cips: cip-TOKEN-STD/cip-meiersi-Canton-Network-Token-Standard.md

<pre>
  CIP:  CIP XXXX
  Layer: Daml
  Title: Canton Network Token Standard

>   Author: Simon Meier, Matteo Limberto, Moritz Kiefer

Author: @moritzkiefer-da @matteolimberto-da: might I ask you for a review of this first draft?

Your call on whether you'd like to be listed as an author or not, I'd be happy to have you as a co-author.

Reviewer: > Your call on whether you'd like to be listed as an author or not, I'd be happy to have you as a co-author.

don't have an issue with being listed although it feels like I'm stealing your credit given that you've done all the hard work on this CIP. Your choice whether you wanna keep me in the list or not.

Author: I consider the author list here to be the main contributors to the design of the change. You've earned your place here.

  License: CC-1.0
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2025-03-07
  Post-History: https://lists.sync.global/g/cip-discuss/topic/110627661#msg13
</pre>

## Abstract

This CIP proposes standard APIs for Canton Network tokens so that wallets and

> apps can use them and build on them in a uniform way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apps can use them and build on them in a uniform way, i.e., working only against the standard APIs without depending on the specifics of an individual asset.
```
Seems worth making this very explicit given that this is sort of the central point here and "uniform way" almost gets lost here otherwise.

The APIs enable three key functionalities:
(1) wallets can serve a portfolio view with transaction history,

> (2) investors can use wallets to initiate free-of-payment and delivery-vs-payment (DVP) transfers,

Reviewer: not sure how well free of payment is known as terminology for crypto people (as opposed to tradfi people). So may wanna describe that or mention that it's the same as direct transfers.

Author: fixed

(3) apps can execute atomic DVP transfers as part settlement workflows.
The APIs are designed with the needs of tokenized real world assets in mind.
In particular, they ensure privacy for investor data and provide fine-grained control
over transfer workflows to registries, investors, and apps.
Canton Coin implements all APIs and complies with the Canton Network token standard
except for [two limitations](#canton-coin-implementation) that are expected to be removed in the future.

## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

## Motivation

Define standard APIs for Canton Network tokens so that wallets and apps can use
them and build on them in a uniform way.

## Specification

### Overview

This standard is concerned with three kinds of applications:

- **asset registries**:
  which are used to manage the ownership records of Canton Network

>   tokens. For example, Amulet as the app backing Canton Coin, or Digital Asset’s

Reviewer: this might be nitpicking but I think Brale is the registrar for USYC so not sure we canna call the registry "DA tokenization utility".

Author: reformulated. I expect later reviewers to have a better view on this though, and will leave the comment open for that.

  tokenization utility backing USYC on Canton.

- **wallets and custody solutions**:
  which are used by investors to manage their Canton Network token holdings

>   across multiple asset registries. For example, DFNS, Copper, HydraX, or future

Reviewer: just my ignorance but what exactly does hydrax do in that regard?

Author: I don't know either. @waynecollier-da do you know?

Reviewer 2: I believe they issue tokens, but I'm not sure if they offer their own wallet experience to customers. Worth checking with Georg.

https://daholdings.slack.com/archives/C07D429SQ81/p1741954144878239

EDIT: they don't seem to be running a wallet yet, would remove for now

Author: removed

>   across multiple asset registries. For example, DFNS, Copper, HydraX, or future

Reviewer: is it worth mentioning the DA utility here? In practice that's the only actual multi-asset wallet on Canton Network at this point (wouldn't point that out but it seems like it might be worth including at least). Ofc DFNS and Copper do other chains so they are multi-asset in that sense.

Author: Not sure it is worth it. These two paragraphs are mostly copies of the initial mail: https://lists.sync.global/g/cip-discuss/topic/110627661#msg13

  retail oriented wallets.

- **apps**: any other services which interact with tokenized assets on-chain.

The standard enables building wallets that provide the following functionality to investors:

1. **Portfolio view**:
   Display current and past holdings of all their Canton Network assets together
   with the total supply of the assets as reported by their registries.
2. **Free of Payment (FOP) Transfers**:
   Initiate bilateral, free-of-payment transfers of their holdings; and monitor
   their progress.
3. **Delivery versus Payment (DVP) Transfers**:
   Review, approve and reject asset transfers requested by apps to atomically settle on-ledger DVP obligations.

The support for DVP transfers enables building apps that coordinate asset
transfers as part of their workflows: e.g., margin management, OTC trading,
(decentralized) exchanges, or apps that accept Canton Network tokens as a means
of payment.

The standard is designed to enable the tokenization of Real-World Assets (RWAs) on Canton Network.
For this purpose it supports:

- **privacy**: information about asset holdings and transfers is shared on a need-to-know basis

> - **control**: registries have full control over the workflows governing asset holdings and transfers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **control**: registries have full control over the structure of the workflows governing asset holdings and transfers
```
otherwise it sounds a bit like the registry actually has full control to initiate transfers or similar whereas I think what we want to say is that the registry is free to setup the workflows in a way that they see fit (which could include giving the registry unilateral control but usually doesn't).

In the following, we provide a more detailed overview over the different
functionalities supported by the standard.

#### UTXO Access Management

Note that Canton manages the state of its ledger using an extended Unspent-Transaction-Output (UTXO) model
(see [Polyglot Canton whitepaper](https://www.canton.network/hubfs/Canton%20Network%20Files/whitepapers/Polyglot_Canton_Whitepaper_11_02_25.pdf)).
There is a one-to-one correspondence between Daml contracts and UTXOs.
Canton's UTXOs are annotated with their stakeholders and are only distributed to the nodes hosting these stakeholders.

Constructing transactions requires access to all UTXOs referenced or consumed by the transaction.
Clients provide this access by retrieving the UTXOs known to their parties from their validator node and

> the UTXOs known to an app provider using API calls to app-specific services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the UTXOs known to an app provider using off-ledger API calls to app-specific services.
```

gets completed immediately as part of this one Daml transaction; or once
further registry-specific steps have happened as part of additional Daml transactions.

The latter option is provided for registries that require additional approvals
to be provided before a transfer can be executed; or registries whose authoritative
ledger is maintained outside of Canton. Registries are allowed to abort a
transfer instruction in case the transfer is not possible.

#### Delivery versus Payment (DVP) Transfer Workflows

The DVP transfer workflows enable multiple asset transfers to be executed as
part of a single Daml transaction in an all-or-nothing fashion: either all
transfers happen or none of them happens.

For this purpose, the registries allow investors to use their wallet to allocate
some of their asset holdings to a settlement for a fixed amount of time. Once
all allocations required for a settlement are present, the app executing the settlement
submits the one Daml transaction that triggers all of the transfers.

More concretely, the standard specifies APIs that enable apps and wallets to
support the workflows along the following lines:

> 1. The user uses the app to get to a point where they are required to deliver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The user uses the settlement app to get to a point where they are required to deliver
```
or similar, and same below. "app" is just kind of confusing when there are multiple apps in play most notably the wallet as well.

Author: Yeah, I'm following Bernhards lead here to just call the apps that build on the standard "apps". So in the text any "wallet app" is written as wallet.

I'll leave it like this for now; and see if more people complain.

Better more descriptive, but not overly restrictive names welcome.

Reviewer 2: We can define the "app" at the beginning of the `Delivery versus Payment (DVP) Transfer Workflows` section and call it say the "initiating app".

e.g.

For this purpose, the registries allow investors to use their wallet to allocate, for a fixed amount of time, some of their assets to a settlement request initiated by an app (the "initiating app"). Once all allocations required for settlement are present, the initiating app submits the one Daml transaction that triggers all of the transfers.

   some of their assets as part of a settlement. For example, they made a
   matched bid on an exchange app or they requested to purchase a good in
   exchange for some of their asset holdings.
2. The user sees the requested asset allocation for that settlement in their wallet
   and use the wallet to create the Daml transaction that instructs the registry
   to create a corresponding allocation.

> 3. The app's backend observes the creation of the allocation on its validator node.

Reviewer: Don't know enough about this but it seems like it might also require human approval in some cases for this step? If that's the case maybe turn it into something like "The app provider (often automated through the app backend)". If that's never used in practice, feel free to resolve.

Author: good point. added.

their deadline. They may just retry them, or they may also implement punitive actions
for the trading parties that failed to allocate their assets within time.

Analogously to transfer instructions, asset registries are allowed to use multi-step
workflows to process an allocation instruction into an actual allocation. They can
use that for example to check internal risk systems or to earmark the allocated funds
in an authoritative ledger maintained outside of Canton.

#### Wallet Client / Portfolio View

As one can see from the sections above, a user's wallet serves a central role in
the transfer workflows. The user is expected to configure their wallet client
such that it can get real-time access to their asset holdings and in-progress
transfers using the Ledger API of a validator node hosting the user's Daml parties.
The wallet client can use this access to populate a portfolio view of all of the
user's assets and the in-progress workflows on them.

The wallet client can also use that Ledger API access to prepare Daml transactions
that match a user's desired action: e.g., creating a FOP transfer instruction.

> It is the user's choice whether to sign these transactions off-ledger or have them

Reviewer: consider mentioning the word "external signing" or "external party" and maybe link to https://docs.digitalasset-staging.com/operate/tutorials/index.html (not sure how public we want that to be but on the other hand I use those docs frequently when answering questions so don't really see a reason not to ref them)

be signed by their validator node. Registries should aim to allow for up to 24 hours
between the preparation of such a transaction and their submission to the network.

##### Registry Specific UIs

> The standard allows registries to communicate the URL for a registry-specific

Reviewer: remind me, the idea here was that this happens through the registryappinstall? Or something else?

I think it may be worth mentioning that this is not necessarily a UI hosted by the provider but could be a UI hosted by the user's participant operator.

Author: It's accessible via this result on the off-ledger call: https://github.com/DACH-NY/canton-network-node/blob/b07fee15d7db87a576fd26a289f53ee7d288f35a/token-standard/splice-api-token-metadata-v1/openapi/token-metadata.yaml#L131-L136

So a locally hosted one would be harder to support ATM. For that we'd need to have user-local metadata. 

I'd suggest we push that out to the Credential standard and explain that any party has a local registry by querying the corresponding contracts from the validator node.

Or would you solve this problem of local UIs as part of the first iteration of the standard?

Reviewer: happy to push out local UIs as you suggested

UI to wallet clients. Redirecting the user to this URL serves as an escape hatch
for serving registry specific data and driving registry-specific workflows.

The URL for the registry-specific UI could for example be used for the user
to ask for the redemption of a wrapped token to a specific address on the
original chain/ledger. Providing this URL allows universal wallet clients
to handle all steps of common workflows, while allowing registries to
implement custom workflows where required.

Furthermore, registries that do not use Canton as the authoritative ledger
might decide to not represent holdings on Canton. This is still valuable,
as these assets can be used in DVP workflows like any other asset.

> The wallet clients would show real-time information about all in-progress transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generic wallet clients would show real-time information about all in-progress transfers.
```

Author: fixed

No preapproval by the receiver is required, as that authorization is expected to
be funneled through the apps' settlement worklows.

CC is standards compliant except for the following two limitations:

- *short submission delay*: the CC implementation only supports a 1 minute
  delay between preparing a transaction and submitting it to the network.
  This is in contrast to the 24h delay targeted by the standard.
- *no holding fees in portfolio view*: the amounts of CC holdings always show
  the amount as of the round that they were created in. Wallets cannot
  use the standardized APIs to display holding fees for CC holdings, but they
  can read the `Amulet` contracts themselves if they desire to show holding fees.

Both of these limitations are expected to be removed in the future, as
explained in [Canton Coin Limitations](#canton-coin-limitations).

### Details

The standard defines six APIs. Each consists of an on-ledger Daml API and
optionally an off-ledger HTTP API. The six APIs and their purpose are:

- *token metadata API*: serve symbol name, total supply, URL for registry-specific UI, other metadata

> - *holdings API*: populate portfolio view

Reviewer: TODO: check if burn/mint fits in here. Probably does when you view it from the point of enabling wallets to display a decent history.

Author: jup. added a note on tx history here

- *transfer instruction API*: initiate and monitor FOP transfers
- *allocation API*: allocate assets to execute DVP transfers
- *allocation request API*: uniform way for apps to request allocations
- *allocation instruction API*: uniform way for wallets to create allocations

A draft PR with all Daml and OpenAPI definitions for all six APIs is linked
below in the [Reference implementation](#reference-implementation) section. Daml
APIs are specified using Daml interfaces and HTTP APIs are specified using
OpenAPI.

The following diagram provides an overview of the interactions enabled by these
APIs.

![API interaction diagram](images/api-diagram.png)

#### Implementation Requirements

> The code in the [Reference implementation](#reference-implementation) provides

Reviewer: what's the current state when it comes to open sourcing that?

Author: ah I meant the reference implementation of the CIP. Let me use better wording.

the exact definitions of the APIs together with inline comments specifying the
exact contracts between API clients and implementors.

Asset registries can in principle freely choose which of the five APIs
concerning them they want to implement. However, they should implement all five
of them to maximize the utility of their tokens. The exception are asset
registries whose authoritative holding records are not maintained on Canton.
They may decide to not implement the "holdings API" to avoid stale holding
records on Canton.

Wallets and custody solutions should aim to make use of all six APIs to provide
a uniform UX across all Canton Network tokens. They should query a registry's
metadata to figure out which APIs it supports and adjust their UI accordingly.

Apps may use the "allocation API" to orchestrate asset transfers as part of
their own workflows. They may also implement the "allocation request API"
to integrate with wallets in a uniform way.

> ##### Global Synchronizer Connectivity for Settlement Workflows

Reviewer: Wondering if this section makes sense in the CIP. At this point it's mostly irrelevant as there is only one synchronizer so I don't think it matters for getting it accepted.

And it doesn't make any statement that requires standardization. So I'd lean towards just omitting it and covering this kind of stuff through app dev docs.

Author: I added it to give the extra weight of: the GSF recommands that you do this. 

I believe that's worthwhile as this kind of strong connectivity to the GS is crucial for the system to succeed.

Reviewer: fair, let's keep it then.

Reviewer: somehow I can't click resolve conversaiton probably becuase it's your repo so feel free to resolve yourself

The reason for this recommendation is that the input contracts (i.e., UTXOs) referenced by a Daml transaction
must all be assigned to the same synchronizer.
Settlement transactions likely involve multiple registries, holders, and apps.
Therefore the most likely synchronizer that all input contracts of a settlement transaction
can be assigned to is the GS.
Thus the benefit of connecting to the GS for settlement workflows is that this
maximizes the chance of there being a synchronizer that can synchronize
the Daml transactions required for the settlement to complete.

#### Off-Ledger API Discovery and Access

The standard expects registry apps to expose the standard's HTTP endpoints for
accessing UTXOs to the public internet under a common URL prefix to provide
maximal freedom for wallets and apps to fetch these.

The standard does not require requests to these HTTP endpoints be authenticated, as all of them
either access data that is expected to be public (e.g., registry metadata) or
data that is protected by a difficult to guess identifier (e.g., the contract-id
of an allocation). See [this section](#no-authentication-on-registry-off-ledger-apis)
for the rationale.

> Decentralized registries (like Amulet) must serve these HTTP endpoints from each of their nodes

Reviewer: do we really want to make this a "must"? My understanding from the iBTC discussions was the opposite. If they do want to have DA provide the off ledger endpoint we're not really opposed. We've done the work through `expectedAdmin` that this is relatively sane from a security pov.

Author: fixed by making it a should

using one URL prefix per node.
Apps and wallets are free to choose any of the HTTP endpoints to query.
The registry's Daml code must be written such that none of the nodes can influence the integrity
of the Daml transactions built using the data from the node's HTTP response.
Apps and wallets can thus get Byzantine-Fault-Tolerance by querying the
off-ledger data from a random URL prefix of the decentralized registry and
retrying in case the transaction submission fails.

Apps and wallet clients can discover a (decentralized) registry's URL prefixes
by [querying the metadata](#cns-entry-metadata) of the CNS entry for the registry's
`admin` party with the key `splice.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/registryUrls`, and
parsing it as a comma-separated list of URLs.

> TODO: once reviewed -- create issue to remove `RegistryAppInstall` and switch to this discovery mechanism

Reviewer: lgtm

keys provided they prefix them with a DNS subdomain that uniquely identifies the
organization defining the key, thereby avoiding clashes between keys from
different organizations.

This approach follows the design of
[Kubernetes Annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/)
and enables new metadata keys to be introduced both in a top-down fashion by
defining their meaning as part of CIPs, as well as in a bottom-up fashion by
keys being defined ad-hoc and adopted more widely purely based on their
usefulness.

The metadata keys defined by this CIP are defined as part of
[splice](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice) and thus prefixed with
`splice.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/`. Concretely, this CIP introduces the following two
metadata keys:

- `splice.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/registry-urls`: a comma-separated list of URLs of
  the off-ledger APIs of a registry, used to [discover the off-ledger APIs of registries](#off-ledger-api-discovery-and-access)
- `splice.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/lock-context`: used on `Holding` contracts to
  provide a human-readable description of the context for the lock on a holding

> TODO: once reviewed - create issue to remove metadata keys related to holding fees

Reviewer: why?

Author: My reasoning was that wallet clients have no good way of generically retrieving the current round. So they have no good way to actually display the accrued holding fees.

Given that we want to remove holding fees in the mid-term I was thinking of ignoring them in the balance display.

Happy to be convinced of another solution though.

Reviewer: fair point, let's omit it. My impression is also that people don't actually care all that much about accrued holding fees and much more about the effective ones they get charged on a transaction (e.g. our finance team). So we may wanna make more sure that we can display all the fees accurately on all transfers (which might mean going through the burn/mint API and putting it in the choice result in some custom metadata there). But we don't need to decide on that here.

returns the CNS entry for the party with the lexicographically smallest name.
Registry operators must make sure to store their metadata on that entry for the above procedure to work.
The easiest way to do so is to allocate at most one CNS entry for their `admin` party.

#### Transaction History

The standard aims to enable wallet clients to serve a transaction history view to their users that explains
all changes to a users' portfolio view and their view of in-progress transfers.

The standard APIs thus define choices for common actions taken by registries,
wallets, or apps on user-visible contracts that implement one of the standard's
Daml interfaces.  Thereby enabling wallets to parse the transaction history in
an implementation-agnostic way using an interface filter to subscribe to the
transaction tree stream served on the Ledger API of the validator node hosting
the user's Daml parties.

Wallet clients should implement a fallback mechanism to display changes to the
user-visible contracts via registry-specific choices that are not part of the
standard. For example, they could show the JSON rendering of the choice name and

> argument, and offer an option to the user to inspect the full sub-transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
argument and the resulting choice to archived and created holdings, and offer an option to the user to inspect the full sub-transaction
```

Author: incorporated

below the choice.

## Rationale

### Alternatives Considered

#### Shipping UTXOs On-Ledger

As explained in [UTXO Access Management](#utxo-access-management) the standard expects registries
to serve HTTP APIs that provide access to the UTXO's (i.e., Daml contracts)
required to call choices on the standard's Daml interfaces.
In contrast, public chains ship all required UTXOs on-ledger.
They also do not require any access management for reading data, which they can
get away with as they make all data public.

Explicitly managing that access is a hard requirement for any ledger with privacy.
However, one might wonder why we don't ship the data on-ledger for the sake of simplicity.
We propose to not do so and ship this data via off-ledger via HTTP APIs for the following reasons:

- *network scalability*: all transaction commits must go through a synchronizer, which
  is thus prone to become a bottleneck. Shipping data on-ledger would imply shipping them via
  a synchronizer that all relevant participants are connected to, which would increase the chance
  of it becoming a bottleneck.

> - *hide implementation details*: what UTXO's to fetch for exercising an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *traffic costs*: On the global synchronizer, transactions incur traffic costs. Distributing data off-ledger means instead of paying traffic costs on the global synchronizer you only pay for network egress costs for an HTTP API which is usually significantly cheaper.
- *hide implementation details*: what UTXO's to fetch for exercising an
```

Author: good point

<pre>
  CIP:  CIP XXXX
  Layer: Daml
  Title: Canton Network Token Standard

>   Author: Simon Meier, Matteo Limberto, Moritz Kiefer

Reviewer 3: Put line breaks between author names.

  License: CC-1.0
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2025-03-07
  Post-History: https://lists.sync.global/g/cip-discuss/topic/110627661#msg13
</pre>

> ## Abstract

Reviewer 3: This is more like the first part of a Specification. I'd move it there.

Author: done.

This CIP proposes standard APIs for Canton Network tokens so that wallets and
apps can use them and build on them in a uniform way, i.e., working only against the standard APIs without depending on the specifics of an individual asset.
The APIs enable four key functionalities:

1. wallets can serve a portfolio view with transaction history

> 2. investors can use wallets to initiate direct peer-to-peer transfers and delivery-vs-payment (DVP) transfers

Reviewer 2: Probably minor, but it sounds like the wallet is used to initiate a DvP, whereas initiation of the DvP is usually orchestrated in e.g. a trading app.

Maybe something like

 ```suggestion
2. investors can use wallets to initiate direct peer-to-peer transfers and fulfil delivery-vs-payment (DVP) transfers
```

> 3. apps can execute atomic DVP transfers as part settlement workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. apps can execute atomic DVP transfers as part of settlement workflows
```

The APIs are designed with the needs of tokenized real world assets in mind.
In particular, they ensure privacy for investor data and provide fine-grained control
over transfer workflows to registries, investors, and apps.
Canton Coin implements all APIs and complies with the Canton Network token standard
except for [two limitations](#canton-coin-implementation) that are expected to be removed in the future.

> ## Copyright

Reviewer 3: Copyright goes at the bottom; looks like it got duplicated here?

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

> ## Motivation

Reviewer 3: Motivation comes after the Specification. 

If possible, please consider writing a somewhat longer Motivation describing why you think there is a problem that needs to be solved.

Define standard APIs for Canton Network tokens so that wallets and apps can use

> them and build on them in a uniform way.

Reviewer 3: This brief explanation of the purpose of the CIP is the role of the Abstract. This text is perfect for that purpose; can you move this sentence to become the Abstract?

## Specification

### Overview

> This standard is concerned with three kinds of applications:

Reviewer 3: This seems like part of the Motivation: We need to support tokens that can be used by these types of applications, and do it in a standard way.

Author: I'd like to avoid completely dangling references to these core definitions. The specification cannot be understood well without them, which is why I'd like to keep their definitions here.

- **asset registries**:
  which are used to manage the ownership records of Canton Network
  tokens. For example, Amulet as the app backing Canton Coin, or Brale using

>   the Digital Asset tokenization utility app to issue USYC on Canton.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the Digital Asset tokenization utility app to issue SBC on Canton.
```

Brale issues SBC, Hashnote issues USYC.

- **wallets and custody solutions**:
  which are used by investors to manage their Canton Network token holdings
  across multiple asset registries. For example, DFNS, Copper, HydraX, or future
  retail oriented wallets.

- **apps**: any other services which interact with tokenized assets on-chain.

> The standard enables building wallets that provide the following functionality to investors:

Reviewer 3: It seems like this is the actual start of the Specification

1. **Portfolio view**:
   Display current and past holdings of all their Canton Network assets together
   with the total supply of the assets as reported by their registries.
2. **Direct Peer-to-Peer / Free of Payment (FOP) Transfers**:
   Initiate direct peer-to-peer transfers of their holdings and monitor their progress.
   Note that these kind of transfers are also known as free of payment (FOP) transfers in TradFi.
3. **Delivery versus Payment (DVP) Transfers**:

>    Review, approve and reject asset transfers requested by apps to atomically settle on-ledger DVP obligations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Review, approve, and reject asset transfers requested by apps to atomically settle on-ledger DVP obligations.
```

Not sure what's the accepted convention here :)

The support for DVP transfers enables building apps that coordinate asset

> transfers as part of their workflows: e.g., margin management, OTC trading,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
transfers as part of their workflows: e.g., collateral management, OTC trading,
```

(decentralized) exchanges, or apps that accept Canton Network tokens as a means
of payment.

> The standard is designed to enable the tokenization of Real-World Assets (RWAs) on Canton Network.

Reviewer 3: This sounds like part of the Motivation

Author: It's less motivation than design rationale. I've decided to place it here, as it greatly helps understand why the workflows are as they are.

For this purpose it supports:

- **privacy**: information about asset holdings and transfers is shared on a need-to-know basis
- **control**: registries have full control over the structure of the workflows governing asset holdings and transfers

In the following, we provide a more detailed overview over the different
functionalities supported by the standard.

> #### UTXO Access Management

Reviewer 2: I feel this section is very technical and breaks the flow between the previous section (introduction of concepts at a high-level) and the subsequent ones (deep-down into the specific business workflows that are enabled by the standard).

I'd move it further down in the document, otherwise I fear folks that are not super-technical will be disrupted. Here I'm putting myself in the shoes of a reader who wants to understand the business value but might not be too familiar with UTXOs / visibility.

An alternative is to reformulate this to not mention UTXO and "dumb it down":
- in order to submit a transaction, you need visibility on all involved contracts
- contracts where you are a stakeholder are read by your Ledger API
- other contracts must be disclosed via app-specific off-ledger API calls

There is a one-to-one correspondence between Daml contracts and UTXOs.
Canton's UTXOs are annotated with their stakeholders and are only distributed to the nodes hosting these stakeholders.

Constructing transactions requires access to all UTXOs referenced or consumed by the transaction.
Clients provide this access by retrieving the UTXOs known to their parties from their validator node and
the UTXOs known to an app provider using off-ledger API calls to app-specific services.

The standard proposes to provide UTXO access for constructing transactions involving tokens as follows:

- **wallet access to user parties**:
  wallets are assumed to have access to the Ledger API of the validator node hosting the parties of their users
  and use that to retrieve all UTXOs known to these parties.
- **registry off-ledger APIs**:
  registries serve UTXOs private to the registry via standardized HTTP APIs specified using OpenAPI as part of the standard.

#### Direct Peer-to-Peer / Free of Payment (FOP) Transfer Workflow

The FOP transfer workflow supported by the standard enables an investor to send a

> specific amount of their asset holdings to another investor, which is considered
> the recipient of the transfer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specific amount of their asset holdings to another investor, who is
the recipient of the transfer.
```

The transfer is always initiated by the sender using their wallet to submit a

> Daml transaction that specifies the instruction to the registry to execute the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Daml transaction that instructs the registry to execute the
```

transfer within a given deadline. Depending on the registry, this instruction

> gets completed immediately as part of this one Daml transaction; or once

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
transfer within a given deadline. Depending on the registry, the instruction
gets settled immediately as part of this one Daml transaction; or once
```

further registry-specific steps have happened as part of additional Daml transactions.

The latter option is provided for registries that require additional approvals

> to be provided before a transfer can be executed; or registries whose authoritative

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be collected before a transfer can be executed; or registries whose authoritative
```

to avoid repeating "provided"

ledger is maintained outside of Canton. Registries are allowed to abort a

> transfer instruction in case the transfer is not possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
transfer instruction in case the transfer cannot be executed.
```

#### Delivery versus Payment (DVP) Transfer Workflows

The DVP transfer workflows enable multiple asset transfers to be executed as
part of a single Daml transaction in an all-or-nothing fashion: either all

> transfers happen or none of them happens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
transfers settle or none of them does.
```

For this purpose, the registries allow investors to use their wallet to allocate

> some of their asset holdings to a settlement for a fixed amount of time. Once

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some of their asset holdings to a settlement request for a fixed amount of time. Once
```

all allocations required for a settlement are present, the app executing the settlement
submits the one Daml transaction that triggers all of the transfers.

More concretely, the standard specifies APIs that enable apps and wallets to
support the workflows along the following lines:

1. The user uses the app to get to a point where they are required to deliver
   some of their assets as part of a settlement. For example, they made a
   matched bid on an exchange app or they requested to purchase a good in

>    exchange for some of their asset holdings.

Reviewer 2: I think we use
- assets
- asset holdings
- tokens

to describe the same thing. Not sure which term resonates best.

Author: fixed: removed token holdings and prefer asset holdings, refer to "asset tokenization" to connect assets to tokens.

2. The user sees the requested asset allocation for that settlement in their wallet

>    and use the wallet to create the Daml transaction that instructs the registry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and uses the wallet to create the Daml transaction that instructs the registry
```

   to create a corresponding allocation.

> 3. The app's backend observes the creation of the allocation on its validator node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The app  observes the creation of the allocation on its validator node.
```

seems overly specific to specify that this happens in the backend

>    It checks whether all allocations for the settlement have been created, and if yes,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It checks whether all allocations for the settlement have been created and, if yes,
```

>    then the app provider (often automated through the app backend) submits the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  it submits the
```

The easiest way to do so is to allocate at most one CNS entry for their `admin` party.

#### Transaction History

The standard aims to enable wallet clients to serve a transaction history view to their users that explains
all changes to a users' portfolio view and their view of in-progress transfers.

The standard APIs thus define choices for common actions taken by registries,
wallets, or apps on user-visible contracts that implement one of the standard's
Daml interfaces.  Thereby enabling wallets to parse the transaction history in
an implementation-agnostic way using an interface filter to subscribe to the
transaction tree stream served on the Ledger API of the validator node hosting
the user's Daml parties.

Wallet clients should implement a fallback mechanism to display changes to the
user-visible contracts via registry-specific choices that are not part of the
standard. For example, they could show the JSON rendering of the choice name and
argument together with the archival and creation of the affected contracts; and offer an
option to the user to inspect the full sub-transaction below the choice.

> 

Reviewer 3: Move the Motivation section here. I know it seems counterintuitive, but this is a long-lived document, and after it has been around for a while, people will use the Abstract to quickly identify it, and then dive directly into the Specification. Motivation and Rationale are important, but since they become less important over the life of this long-lived document, they go after the Specification.

Author: done.

the protections in place in the current standard. The main protection being that
sensitive data like an investors holdings and in-progress transfers can only be
queried from the investors validator node. The secondary protection being that
accessing sensitive data via the off-ledger registry API requires knowing
corresponding contract-ids, which are unguessable for third-parties.

This CIP thus does not standardize an authentication scheme for the off-ledger APIs
of registries to accelerate the delivery of the first version of the Canton
Network token standard. We expect that an authentication scheme can and will be
standardized once there is sufficient demand for it.

#### Native Support for CNS Entry Metadata

The workaround of storing metadata in the description field of CNS entries is
a pragmatic solution to the lack of native support for metadata in CNS entries.
We did not aim to solve this limitation in this CIP for the sake of expediency.
We expect a future CIP to address that limitation by adding native support for
metadata to CNS entries.

### Relation to ERC20

This standard is inspired by the [ERC20 standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20),

> and covers all features of ERC20 except unconstrained allowances. More precisely:

Reviewer 3: Does the CN token standard include Total Supply? Do you define what exactly you mean by total supply?

Author: It includes it, but not yet with a definition. I'll define the total supply for a given `admin` party and `instrumentId`, as the sum of the `amount` fields of all `Holding` contracts with this `admin` and `instrumentId` in the ACS of the `admin` party.

Author: defined in the text
